Intervals and interval arithmetic (#1497)
UniMath/agda-unimath: src/order-theory/closed-intervals-posets.lagda.md

# Closed intervals in posets

```agda
module order-theory.closed-intervals-posets where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import foundation.cartesian-product-types
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.equality-cartesian-product-types
open import foundation.equality-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.images-subtypes
open import foundation.inhabited-subtypes
open import foundation.injective-maps
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.propositional-truncations
open import foundation.propositions
open import foundation.sets
open import foundation.subtypes
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import order-theory.interval-subposets
open import order-theory.posets
```

</details>

## Idea

A
{{#concept "closed interval" disambiguation="in a poset" Agda=closed-interval-Poset}}
in a [poset](order-theory.posets.md) `P` consists of a
[pair](foundation.cartesian-product-types.md) of elements `x` and `y` in `P`
with `x ≤ y`. A closed interval notably induces a
[subtype](foundation.subtypes.md) of `P` spanned by elements `z` such that

> `x ≤ z ≤ y`.

Reviewer: Thinking about this a little more, I'm beginning to be convinced this is not a good way of defining the concept. I don't think many people would agree that a closed interval is a pair of elements `x` and `y` such that `x ≤ y`. That would be the bounds of an inhabited closed interval (can't the empty subset be a closed interval?). Instead, this concept should be called an "increasing pair of elements". The subtype itself `subtype-closed-interval-Poset` is what should be called the closed interval. Indeed, that is what you are referring to as a closed interval in `closed-interval-preserving-maps-posets`, and what is commonly understood by a closed interval.

Reviewer: > I will push back against calling this an increasing pair of elements, on the following levels:
> 
> * it does not carry useful connotations (what is "multiplying an ascending pair of rational numbers"?)
> * if we were to implement an `interval-Poset P` type, it would presumably be implemented as a subset of the power set of `P`; what I'm getting at is that we'd end up having to write `subtype-interval-Poset P` _anyway_.

Gotcha, I'll let you dictate this one. I'm fine with the conflation for now, at least until a stronger demand for a disambiguation arises.

# Closed intervals in posets

```agda
module order-theory.closed-intervals-posets where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import foundation.cartesian-product-types
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.equality-cartesian-product-types
open import foundation.equality-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.images-subtypes
open import foundation.inhabited-subtypes
open import foundation.injective-maps
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.propositional-truncations
open import foundation.propositions
open import foundation.sets
open import foundation.subtypes
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import order-theory.interval-subposets
open import order-theory.posets
```

</details>

## Idea

A
{{#concept "closed interval" disambiguation="in a poset" Agda=closed-interval-Poset}}
in a [poset](order-theory.posets.md) `P` is a [subtype](foundation.subtypes.md)
of `P` with elements `x` and `y` with `x ≤ y` such that the subtype contains

> every element `z` such that `x ≤ z ∧ z ≤ y`. (We choose the convention of not
> considering the empty subtype to be a closed interval.)

Reviewer: This one is more faithful to the formalization, since it doesn't use a double negative :)
```suggestion
every element `z` such that `x ≤ z ∧ z ≤ y`. Note, in particular, that we thus consider closed intervals to be inhabited by convention.
```
